docs(plugin-procfs): README modify (#245)
alumet-dev/alumet: plugin-procfs/README.md

# Procfs plugin

Collects processes and system-related metrics by reading the [proc](<https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/filesystems/proc.html>) virtual filesystem on UNIX based operating systems.

## Requirements

- UNIX operating system.

> - All metrics of the plugin needs to access to the process file system `/proc/sys/` dynamically generated by the kernel.

Reviewer: What is `/proc/sys`? We aren't reading from that.

What the plugin needs is read access to `/proc`. Depending on the situation, it will monitor more or less processes. For instance, running the Alumet agent as root will allow the procfs plugin to monitor every process of every user. Running the Alumet agent as user `gerard` will make it monitor the processes of this user. The permission to read `/proc/pid` for other processes can also be granted with capabilities. See https://docs.kernel.org/filesystems/proc.html#process-specific-subdirectories

For this PR, it would be great to make a separate section about permissions and capabilities, and put only one sentence in the list item.

Reviewer: To be more exhaustive, `/proc` access primarily depends on the `hidepid` mount option: https://docs.kernel.org/filesystems/proc.html#mount-options

> - All metrics of the plugin needs to access to the process file system `/proc/sys/` dynamically generated by the kernel.

Author: I don't how you can see that, I have already fixed this part yesterday

# Procfs plugin

Collects processes and system-related metrics by reading the [proc](<https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/filesystems/proc.html>) virtual filesystem on Linux based operating systems.

## Requirements

> - Linux operating system.

Author: Yes : "https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-freebsd-mount-procfs/"

> - Read access to file system `/proc/`.
> - Read access to file system `/proc/<pid>` for process stats.
> - Access mode in [/proc/mounts](<https://docs.kernel.org/filesystems/proc.html#mount-options>) file by configuring the [hidepid](#hidepid) parameter.

Reviewer: All three are the same item.
```suggestion
- Read access to the `/proc` virtual file system. Depending on the mount options, [some privileges might be needed](#procfs-access).
```

> ### hidepid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Procfs Access
```

And then explain what this parameter is and what it does, and add a link to the kernel docs.
Also, explain how to read `/proc/<pid>` when the parameter is high. As a user, do I need to be root? Do I need to run setcap? Something else?
Also, you can move this section to the bottom of the file.

This parameter is one of those that can configure Procfs permissions. If this parameter has been set with a specific value different from the default configuration, you may not be able to collect all process metrics. Here are its available configuration values :

|Value|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|0|`Default` : Everybody may access all `/proc/<pid>/` directories|
|1|`Noaccess` : Users may not access any `/proc/<pid>/` directories but their own|
|2|`Invisible` : All `/proc/<pid>/` will be fully invisible to other users|
|4|`PTraceable` : Procfs should only contain `/proc/<pid>/` directories that the caller can ptrace|

## Metrics

There are various information collected by this plugin relative to Kernel, CPU, memory and processes :

|Name|Type|Unit|Description|Ressource|RessourceConsumer|Attributes|
|----|----|----|-----------|---------|-----------------|----------|

> |`kernel_cpu_time`|CounterDiff|MilliSecond|Time during the CPU is busy|LocalMachine|LocalMachine|[cpu_state](#cpu_state)|

Reviewer: Units should be written with their standard name, for example `ms` or `millisecond` for milliseconds, not `MilliSecond`.

|`mem_free`|Gauge|Bytes|Refers to truly free memory, which is not used by processes, caches or buffers|LocalMachine|LocalMachine||
|`mem_available`|Gauge|Bytes|More accurate estimate of the actual available memory, taking into account free memory and also caches and buffers that can be freed|LocalMachine|LocalMachine||
|`cached`|Gauge|Bytes|Cached is the memory used for ROM cache (page cache) in memory|LocalMachine|LocalMachine||
|`swap_cached`|Gauge|Bytes|Memory that was placed in swap and brought back to RAM, but remains in swap file|LocalMachine|LocalMachine||
|`active`|Gauge|Bytes|Memory that has been used recently|LocalMachine|LocalMachine||
|`inactive`|Gauge|Bytes|Used memory that can be reclaimed, freed, or moved to swap.|LocalMachine|LocalMachine||
|`mapped`|Gauge|Bytes|Memory used for files associated with processes in memory, file and memory mapping.|LocalMachine|LocalMachine||

### Attributes

#### Kind

The kind of the memory is the allocated memory space reserved by the system or the hardware :

|Value|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|`resident`|Physical memory actually used by a process|
|`shared`|Part of memory used simultaneously by several processes|

> |`virtual`|Total virtual memory address space requested by a process|

Reviewer: The descriptions here are a bit simplistic, it's more complicated than that. IMO, it would be better to stay factual and use the same description as the manual. See the comments in the `procfs-core` crate, structure `StatM`, and [`man proc/pid/statm`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/proc_pid_statm.5.html) and [`man /proc/pid/status`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/proc_pid_status.5.html).

The kind of the CPU time delta is the average CPU time spent by various tasks :

|Value|Description|
|-----|-----------|

> |`user`|CPU time used to run userspace processes (not Kernel system processes)|

Reviewer: Same remark here: the descriptions are not accruate. Read the doc of the `procfs-core`, structure `Stat` (in `stat.rs`). The "user" kind is not the "time used to run userspace processes", but the time _spent_ by the process in _user mode_. Every process can have some `user` time and some `system` time.

|`system`|CPU time used by the system (Kernel)|
|`guest`|CPU time used by a guest virtual machine when a hypervisor virtualizes environments|

#### cpu_state

The CPU states correspond to all categories of time during which the CPU performs various tasks :

|Value|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|`user`|CPU time used to run userspace processes (not Kernel system processes)|
|`nice`|CPU time consumed by tasks that give way to other higher priority processes|
|`system`|CPU time used by the system (Kernel)|
|`idle`|Time the CPU is in sleep mode or waiting for tasks|
|`irq`|CPU time spent handling hardware interrupts (input/output or peripheral signals)|
|`softirq`|CPU time spent handling software interrupts (delayed interrupts scheduled by the kernel)|

> |`steal`|Time a hypervisor uses CPU for other virtual machines on the same host|

Reviewer: some descriptions are in present tense, some are in past tense, please make everything consistent ^^ Use the past everywhere, so `used`, not `uses`.

|`guest`|CPU time used by a guest virtual machine when a hypervisor virtualizes environments|
|`guest_nice`|CPU time used by a guest virtual machine for processes with "nice" priority|

## Configuration

Here is a configuration example of the plugin. It's part of the ALUMET configuration file (eg: `alumet-config.toml`).

```rust
[plugins.procfs]
poll_interval = "1s"
flush_interval = "5s"

> ```

Reviewer: This is still incorrect. Have you generated the config with `alumet-agent`?

Reviewer: You need to explain that, by default, `enabled` is set to true for each sub-section.

To active the plugin to collect metrics relative to kernel utilization :

```rust
[plugins.procfs.kernel]
enabled = true
poll_interval = "5s"
```

Also, you can collect or not more precise metrics about the memory consumption with each detail level :

```rust
[plugins.procfs.memory]
enabled = true
poll_interval = "5s"
metrics = [
    "MemTotal",
    "MemFree",
    "MemAvailable",
    "Cached",
    "SwapCached",
    "Active",
    "Inactive",
    "Mapped",
]
```

> You can active collect of processes metrics for the plugin with 2 different strategies (system watcher or internal event) :

Reviewer: And what does it change?
Imagine you're a new user, that has never used Alumet nor the plugin. You would ask yourself: What are the differences between the strategies? Why do they exist? What should I choose?

```rust
[plugins.procfs.processes]
enabled = true
refresh_interval = "2s"
strategy = "watcher"
```

Likewise, you can collect processes groups metrics :

```rust

> [[plugins.procfs.processes.groups]]

Reviewer: What does it do?

The CPU states correspond the amount of time, measured in ticks, the CPU has been in specific states. These fields are measured in ticks because the underlying data from the kernel is measured in ticks (<https://docs.rs/procfs-core/latest/procfs_core/struct.CpuTime.html>) :

|Value|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|`user`|Ticks spent in user mode|
|`nice`|Ticks spent in user mode with low priority (nice)|
|`system`|Ticks spent in system mode|
|`idle`|Ticks spent in the idle state|
|`irq`|Ticks servicing interrupts|
|`softirq`|Ticks servicing softirqs|
|`steal`|Ticks of stolen time. Stolen time is the time spent in other operating systems when running in a virtualized environment.|
|`guest`|Ticks spent running a virtual CPU for guest operating systems under control of the linux kernel|
|`guest_nice`|Ticks spent running a niced guest|

## Configuration

Here is a configuration example of the plugin. It's part of the ALUMET configuration file (eg: `alumet-config.toml`). This plugin is composed of sections and each of them must be enabled or disabled with the `enabled` parameter to be set to true or false.

To active the plugin to collect metrics relative to kernel utilization :

> ```rust

Author: Okay I will fix that but your comments here "Still missing comments/docs. You don't have to create them, they're already in the code" is for an older commit I already fixe that
